Draft PR: Ecash (#1093)
BitcoinDesign/Guide: guide/how-it-works/ecash/introduction.md

   alt-text = "Diagram showing Alice exchanging 100 sats with an ecash mint and receiving 100 sats in ecash form. Alice then transfers 100 sats in ecash to Bob, who also interacts with an ecash mint. The process is represented with dashed arrows and labeled amounts, illustrating the flow of sats between Alice, the mint, and Bob."
   caption = "Alice mints 100 sats into ecash then sends the ecash to Bob. The ecash mint makes sure the ecash token is valid before issuing new one to Bob."
   width = 800
   height = 196
   layout = "full-width"
%}
When a user sends an ecash token to another user, the wallet verifies the mint's signature to confirm the token's authenticity. The mint then checks its database to ensure the token has not been previously spent. If the token is valid, it is invalidated and replaced with a new token, which is then issued to the recipient. This cycle of invalidating the old token and issuing a new one prevents double spending while maintaining user privacy and security.

{% include picture.html
   image = "/assets/images/guide/how-it-works/ecash/sending-bitcoin-flow.png"
   retina = "/assets/images/guide/how-it-works/ecash/sending-bitcoin-flow@2x.png"

>    mobile = "/assets/images/guide/how-it-works/ecash/sending-bitcoin-flow@2x.png"

Reviewer: Remove if mobile images are the same as desktop.

#### QR codes
On the base chain and Lightning network, QR codes provide directions for where to send Bitcoin. In contrast, ecash tokens can be embedded within a QR code itself. The ecash token can be claimed by simply scanning the QR code. This method is particularly useful for in person payments or quick transfers, and also enables physical bearer assets like paper notes.

---

## Comparisons and considerations
{% include tip/open.html color="blue" icon="info" label="Ecash is a custodial solution" %}

This means someone else holds your bitcoin. Be aware that this subjects users to custodial risks.

{% include tip/close.html %}

Since ecash is a custodial solution, it’s important to weigh its benefits against the risks of other custodial options. The risk profile of ecash is similar to custodial Lightning, but with some added benefits.

### Bitcoin custody spectrum
{% include picture.html
   image = "/assets/images/guide/how-it-works/ecash/custody-spectrum.png"
   retina = "/assets/images/guide/how-it-works/ecash/custody-spectrum@2x.png"

>    mobile = "/assets/images/guide/how-it-works/ecash/custody-spectrum.png"

Reviewer: Remove if mobile images are the same as desktop.

* **Higher volume** - The centralized mint allows ecash systems to handle a larger volume of payments efficiently. The bottlenecks typical of decentralized networks like the lightning network are avoided.

* **Simplified processing** - payments are validated and settled internally within the mint. This reduces complexity and avoids potential delays associated with routing and liquidity issues in the lightning network.

* **Consistent speed** - Ecash systems offer consistent payment speeds regardless of network conditions. Unlike the lightning network, where payment speeds can be affected by channel capacity, node connectivity, and node hardware.

* **Enhanced privacy** - [Blinded signatures](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Blind_signature) safeguard user identities and total balances. While the mint can see amounts for individual payments (like paying an invoice or swapping proofs), it cannot associate these with specific users or determine anyone's total ecash holdings, as there are no user accounts.

---
### Ecash protocols

> {% include picture.html

Author: The image is definitely decorative. I think adding it here is nice because it gives the page a more personality and sense of design identity. In my opinion it doesn’t impact readability too much.  Like the comment above, if this is more about aesthetics, I’d rather keep it. But if you think it hurts readability enough to affect the guide, I’m okay with removing it.

   image = "/assets/images/guide/how-it-works/ecash/ecash-protocol-logos.jpg"
   retina = "/assets/images/guide/how-it-works/ecash/ecash-protocol-logos@2x.jpg"
   mobile = "/assets/images/guide/how-it-works/ecash/ecash-protocol-logos@2x.jpg"
   mobileRetina = "assets/images/guide/how-it-works/ecash/ecash-protocol-logos@2x.jpg"
   alt-text = "Split-screen image showing two open-source protocols. The left side features ‘Fedimint’ on a blue background, described as ‘An open-source protocol for creating federated ecash mints.’ The right side shows ‘Cashu’ on a purple background, described as ‘An open-source protocol for creating solo ecash mints.’ In the background, there is a computer screen with a Bitcoin logo and a retro-tech aesthetic."
   width = 800
   height = 508
   layout = "full-width"
%}

> **Fedimint** and **Cashu** are two unqiue bitcoin-backed ecash protocols. They differ in their approach to trust and governance. 

Author: Ack

---

### [Cashu]({{ '/guide/how-it-works/ecash/cashu/' | relative_url }})

Cashu lets users run and operate their own solo mints or place trust in a solo mint they choose to use.

---

### [Fedimint]({{ '/guide/how-it-works/ecash/fedimint' | relative_url }})

Fedimint operates through a federated model where a group of trusted entities (called "guardians") manage funds collectively through the use of multi-sig.

> 

Author: <img width="815" alt="image" src="https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/e00ddf04-9ca0-492d-b04e-3c6e6d72aea0">
I thought about changing this, but honestly, I think it looks nicer the way it is. If it’s just about the looks, I’d say let’s keep it. But if you think it really messes with readability, I’m cool with changing it.

   retina = "/assets/images/guide/how-it-works/ecash/creation-and-redemption@2x.png"
   mobile = "/assets/images/guide/how-it-works/ecash/creation-and-redemption@2x.png"
   mobileRetina = "/assets/images/guide/how-it-works/ecash/creation-and-redemption@2x.png"
   alt-text = "Diagram illustrating the creation and redemption of ecash by Alice. On the left side, under ‘Creation,’ Alice sends 100 sats to an ecash mint, which creates ecash tokens, and Alice receives 100 sats in ecash form. On the right side, under ‘Redemption,’ Alice sends 100 sats in ecash form to the mint, which burns the ecash tokens, and Alice receives 100 sats back in Bitcoin. The process flow is represented with dashed arrows and labeled steps."
   caption = "Alice mints 100 sats into ecash through a mint and later redeems the ecash tokens to reclaim her original 100 sats in bitcoin."
   width = 800
   height = 508
   layout = "full-width"
%}

Cashu and Fedimint use various terms for the processes of creating, redeeming, and transferring bitcoin-backed ecash. To provide clarity, we'll use neutral terms in our explanations and provide a translation table for specific implementations.

> #### Creating ecash

Reviewer 2: Might be worth mentioning that, although ecash works differently under the hood, the end user experience for ecash wallets is very similar to Lightning wallets. Users send and receive sats, with few notable differences to Lightning. But the overall experience is very similar. For example, users send sats to a wallet and don't really notice that the bitcoin gets converted to ecash, and vice versa.

Author: Great suggestion. I updated this to include this:

_To provide clarity, we’ll use neutral terms in our explanations and provide a translation table for specific implementations. While the underlying technology differs, the end user experience of ecash wallets is very similar to Lightning wallets - users simply send and receive sats without needing to understand the technical conversion between bitcoin and ecash happening behind the scenes. Most users won’t notice any significant differences from their usual Lightning wallet experience._

**1. User deposits funds** - The user deposits bitcoin into a mint or federation. Typically this is done by generating a lightning invoice through the mint and paying it.

**2. Ecash creation** - Upon successful payment, the wallet generates secrets and [blinds](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Blinding_(cryptography)) them. The wallet then sends the blinded messages to the mint or federation, which returns [blind signature](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Blind_signature) on the blinded messages. The blinding process ensures that the mint cannot link the tokens to the user, preserving privacy.

**3. Ecash receipt** - The user receives a set of proofs that correspond to specific amounts of bitcoin. These proofs can be combined to create an ecash token of any amount denominated in bitcoin.

#### Converting ecash to bitcoin

> **1. User initiates conversion** - User initiates a conversion request with their mint or federation.

Reviewer 2: Could be helpful to mention that this happens automatically, if the user pays a Lightning invoice. It's not really a conscious step that users need to think about.

**2. Ecash verification and invalidation** - The mint or federation verifies the validity of the ecash tokens. Upon verification, the mint or federation invalidates these tokens, ensuring they cannot be reused. This step prevents double-spending.

**3. Bitcoin transfer** - Once the tokens are verified and invalidated, the mint or federation sends an equivalent amount of bitcoin to the user. 

#### Terminology translation table

| Generic term | Cashu term | Fedimint term |
|-------|----------|----------|
| Create ecash | Mint | Issue |
| Send ecash | Swap | Reissue | 
| Convert ecash to bitcoin | Melt | Redeem |
| Token | Token | Note |

### Sending and receiving ecash

> {% include picture.html

Reviewer 2: How about adding a subtle grey background to the image? Could help with visual page structure. For example, the Title and the caption are quite detached from the image. 

![image](https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/6d3f15b5-e628-42fc-916c-572c812e8aa4)

Author: I used to have a subtle gray background, but I removed it. I did this for all the images / illustrations in the ecash section. I prefer the look of everything blending seamlessly into the white background, making it feel unified with the page. To make the title and caption feel more connected to the image, I adjusted the height so they’re closer to the illustration.

<img width="948" alt="image" src="https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/6ea4c008-91aa-48f2-b6e8-c5a787cd5dcf">

---
layout: guide
title: Ecash
description: An overview of bitcoin-backed ecash, protocols, and design best practices.
nav_order: 7
parent: How it works
has_children: true
permalink: /guide/how-it-works/ecash/introduction/
redirect_from:
 - /guide/ecash/introductions/
 - /guide/ecash/introduction/
main_classes: -no-top-padding

> image: https://bitcoin.design/assets/images/guide/how-it-works/ecash/ecash.jpg

Author: Thanks! I updated this with a unique image. On what part of the site is this image referenced? I would like to see a preview of it if i can.

> image: https://bitcoin.design/assets/images/guide/how-it-works/ecash/ecash.jpg

Author: okay, nice. I'll make some custom images for this case then. I think something like this will be nice:
<img width="1032" alt="image" src="https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/393e469f-4373-440b-add8-76f4b42b0fa0">

---

<!--

Editor's notes

An introduction and detailed summary of bitcoin-backed ecash.

Illustration sources

-->

{% include picture.html
   image = "/assets/images/guide/how-it-works/ecash/ecash.jpg"
   retina = "/assets/images/guide/how-it-works/ecash/ecash@2x.jpg"
   mobile = "/assets/images/guide/how-it-works/ecash/ecash-mobile.jpg"
   mobileRetina = "/assets/images/guide/how-it-works/ecash/ecash-mobile@2x.jpg"
   alt-text = "ecash chapter illustration"
   width = 1600
   height = 600
   layout = "full-width"
%}

# Ecash

> Ecash is a digital payment system that uses cryptographic techniques to ensure secure and private transactions. Developed by David Chaum in 1983, it operates through a mint that issues digital tokens in exchange for deposited funds. These tokens can be spent and received without revealing user identities or transaction details, thanks to blinded signatures. Users can redeem their tokens for the original funds at any time. Since no accounts or personal information are needed; the mint cannot see your balance, tokens, or transaction details, offering a highly private and efficient method for digital payments.

Author: Great find. Looks much better.

## How Bitcoin-Backed Ecash Works
{% include picture.html

>    image = "/assets/images/guide/how-it-works/ecash/how-ecash-works@1x.png"

Author: Updated all files and removed @1x from file names and file references.

---
### Ecash Protocols

{% include picture.html
   image = "/assets/images/guide/how-it-works/ecash/ecash-protocol-logos@1x.jpg"
   retina = "/assets/images/guide/how-it-works/ecash/ecash-protocol-logos@2x.jpg"
   mobile = "/assets/images/guide/how-it-works/ecash/ecash-protocol-logos@2x.jpg"
   mobileRetina = "assets/images/guide/how-it-works/ecash/ecash-protocol-logos@2x.jpg"
   alt-text = "An illustration showing the Cashu and Fedimint protocol logos."
   caption = ""
   width = 800
   height = 456
   layout = "full-width"
%}

**Fedimint** and **Cashu** are two unqiue bitcoin-backed ecash protocols. They differ in their approach to trust and governance. 

Fedimint operates through a federated model where a group of trusted entities (called "guardians") manage funds collectively. 

Cashu lets users run and operate their own solo mints or place trust in a solo mint they choose to use.

---

### [Cashu]({{ '/guide/how-it-works/ecash/cashu/' | relative_url }})

 Learn about Cashu's approach to bitcoin-backed ecash through the use of solo mints.

---

### [Fedimint]({{ '/guide/how-it-works/ecash/fedimint' | relative_url }})

> Learn about Fedimint's federated model, which decentralizes trust by involving multiple parties through the use of multi-sig.

Author: The Fedimint developers suggested including multi-signature functionality. They want to emphasize that the funds are secured through a multi-signature process, as this is a key feature of Fedimint. Is this accurate to say @elsirion?

   caption = ""
   width = 800
   height = 456
   layout = "full-width"
%}

### Creating and Redeeming Ecash
{% include picture.html
   image = "/assets/images/guide/how-it-works/ecash/creation-and-redemption@1x.png"
   retina = "/assets/images/guide/how-it-works/ecash/creation-and-redemption@2x.png"
   mobile = "/assets/images/guide/how-it-works/ecash/creation-and-redemption@2x.png"
   mobileRetina = "assets/images/guide/how-it-works/ecash/creation-and-redemption@2x.png"
   alt-text = "An illustration of the process of creating and redeeming ecash tokens"
   caption = "Creating and redeeming ecash tokens."
   width = 800
   height = 456
   layout = "full-width"
%}

Cashu and Fedimint use various terms for the processes of creating, redeeming, and transferring bitcoin-backed ecash. To provide clarity, we'll use neutral terms in our explanations and provide a translation table for specific implementations.

#### Creating Ecash

**1. User Deposits Funds** - The user deposits bitcoin into a mint or federation. Typically this is done by generating a Lightning invoice through the mint and paying it.

> **2. Token Creation** - Upon successful payment, the wallet generates secrets and blinds them. The wallet then sends the blinded messages to the mint or federation, which returns a blind signature on the blinded messages. The blinding process ensures that the mint cannot link the tokens to the user, preserving privacy.

Author: I can hyperlink to Wikipedia articles, which might be the best solution. It’s quite complex, and trying to explain it inline could lead to confusion. Designers don’t really need to understand how the cryptography works. It’s helpful, but not necessary in my opinion.

> **2. Token Creation** - Upon successful payment, the wallet generates secrets and blinds them. The wallet then sends the blinded messages to the mint or federation, which returns a blind signature on the blinded messages. The blinding process ensures that the mint cannot link the tokens to the user, preserving privacy.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
**2. Token Creation** - Upon successful payment, the wallet generates secrets and blinds them. The wallet then sends the blinded messages to the mint or federation, which returns blind signatures on the blinded messages. The blinding process ensures that the mint cannot link the tokens to the user, preserving privacy.
```

To me the other wording implied it was one signature across all the blinded messages where it is one for each.

Author: Thanks! Just updated.

Author: For point 3. What do you think about:

`**3. Token receipt** - The user receives a set of proofs that correspond to specific amounts of bitcoin. These proofs can be combined to create an ecash token of any amount denominated in bitcoin.`

I'm not sure about the labeling of this step. "Token receipt". I don't think the user receives a token in this process. Is it correct to say they receive a set of proofs?

> **3. Token Receipt** - The user receives a set of secrets (a cryptographic value that represents ownership of a specific amount of bitcoin) that correspond to specific amounts of sats. These secrets can be combined to create an ecash token of any amount denominated in bitcoin.

Author: As I understand it: when you exchange bitcoin for ecash, you receive a set of secrets. Each secret represents a certain value, in cashu these secrets are denominated in factors of 2. Not sure what they are in Fedimint. These values can be combined to create a token of a specific amount, like 100 sats. To keep it simple, I usually just mention that these secrets can be combined to create a token, without going into much detail. Any ideas for how to make this easier to explain? cc @findingsov

> **3. Token Receipt** - The user receives a set of secrets (a cryptographic value that represents ownership of a specific amount of bitcoin) that correspond to specific amounts of sats. These secrets can be combined to create an ecash token of any amount denominated in bitcoin.

Reviewer 4: (I do wonder whether secrets should be called Proofs).
But sticking with secret, what about something along these lines:
"The user receives a set of secrets. A secret is a cryptographic value that represents ownership of a specific  denomination.  The set of secrets represents the set of denominations. . For example, 1, 2, 4, 8, 16, 32, 64, etc,.   The secrets of different denominations can then be combined to create a token of any amount of ecash."

> **3. Token Receipt** - The user receives a set of secrets (a cryptographic value that represents ownership of a specific amount of bitcoin) that correspond to specific amounts of sats. These secrets can be combined to create an ecash token of any amount denominated in bitcoin.

Reviewer 3: I don't think we should use secrets here. The user does not receive secrets from the mint as the user is the once that generates the secrets as stated in the paragraph before, point 2.

#### Converting Ecash to Bitcoin

**4. User Initiates Conversion** - User initiates a conversion request with their mint or federation.

**5. Token Verification and Destruction** - The mint or federations verifies the validity of the ecash tokens. Upon verification, the mint or federation destroys or invalidates these tokens, ensuring they cannot be reused. This step prevents double-spending.

> **6. Bitcoin Transfer** - Once the tokens are verified and destroyed, the provider sends an equivalent amount of bitcoin to the user. 

Author: Yes, in the ecash context it just means that the ledger is updated to mark these tokens as spent. Destroyed is the term that is usually used to describe this <img width="485" alt="image" src="https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/195d2305-17ae-4ac9-9833-5e8c2ad60a12">

But I think the term "invalidated" might be better. It's more simple.

{% include picture.html
   image = "/assets/images/guide/how-it-works/ecash/sending-bitcoin-flow@1x.jpg"
   retina = "/assets/images/guide/how-it-works/ecash/sending-bitcoin-flow@2x.jpg"
   mobile = "/assets/images/guide/how-it-works/ecash/sending-bitcoin-flow@2x.jpg"
   mobileRetina = "assets/images/guide/how-it-works/ecash/sending-bitcoin-flow@2x.jpg"
   alt-text = "An illustration comparing how on-chain bitcoin, lightning, and ecash handle the sending of bitcoin."
   caption = ""
   width = 800
   height = 456
   layout = "full-width"
%}

Sending ecash and receiving can be done via multiple methods to suit different transaction needs. One of the advantages of bitcoin-backed ecash is that the tokens are just strings of text, which are very flexible and can be transmitted via any medium or rail. Some unique ways that ecash can be sent and received, which are not possible with on-chain or Lightning transactions, include:

#### Text Message, Such as Email or SMS:
Users can send ecash by copying and pasting the token string. This is particularly useful for online transactions or when using text based communication platforms.

#### Bluetooth Transmission:

> Most applications allow users to share a token via Bluetooth. However, more comprehensive Bluetooth sending and receiving functionalities have not yet been fully developed.

Author: A way to send the token so that a mobile phone can recognize it as an ecash token and know what to do with it, such as opening an application to redeem it. Some apps allow you to “share” an ecash token via Bluetooth, but the receiving phone typically only recognizes it as a text string, which often results in the token being opened in the phone’s notes application instead of the intended app.

Would replacing comprehensive with a "full end to end" be better? Not sure how to communicate this without making it too wordy.

#### QR Codes:
Unlike base chain and Lightning Network QR codes, which only provide directions for where to send Bitcoin, ecash tokens can be embedded within a QR code itself. This means that a user can claim the ecash token by simply scanning the QR code. This method is particularly useful for in person transactions or quick transfers. QR redemption also enables physical bearer assets like paper notes.

---

> ### [Design Best Practices]({{ '/guide/how-it-works/ecash/design-best-practices/' | relative_url }})

Author: I’m definitely open to better placement ideas. I thought it fit well here because it follows the explanation of how it works from the user’s perspective and comes before the trade-off sections. It seems helpful for the user to first understand how it works, then immediately see visual examples of some of the features and functionalities they just read about.

> ### [Design Best Practices]({{ '/guide/how-it-works/ecash/design-best-practices/' | relative_url }})

Reviewer 2: I'd agree with @GBKS. I would probably move it to the end of the page or scrap it entirely.

> ### [Design Best Practices]({{ '/guide/how-it-works/ecash/design-best-practices/' | relative_url }})

Author: Agreed. I decided to scrap it. The design best practices are fine in their own section. I don't think they need to be linked in this introduction page.

Explore guidelines and best practices for optimizing the use of ecash on Bitcoin.

---

## Comparisons and Considerations

### Bitcoin Custody Spectrum
{% include picture.html
   image = "/assets/images/guide/how-it-works/ecash/custody-spectrum@1x.png"
   retina = "/assets/images/guide/how-it-works/ecash/custody-spectrum@2x.png"
   mobile = "/assets/images/guide/how-it-works/ecash/custody-spectrum@1x.png"
   mobileRetina = "/assets/images/guide/how-it-works/ecash/custody-spectrum@2x.png"
   alt-text = "Illustration displaying different types of bitcoin custody, showcasing a range from user-held to custodial solutions."
   caption = "Bitcoin custody options: evaluating decentralization and risk."
   width = 800
   height = 456b
   layout = "full-width"
%}

{% include tip/open.html color="blue" icon="info" label="Ecash is a custodial solution" %}

Bitcoin-backed ecash is custodial, meaning someone else holds your bitcoin. Be aware that this subjects users to custodial risks.

{% include tip/close.html %}

> The spectrum of decentralization and custody for bitcoin ranges from highly decentralized to highly centralized. Holding self-custodial Bitcoin on the base layer is the least risky and most decentralized, rated at 0. Self-custodial Lightning is slightly more centralized at 1, while custodial Lightning moves further towards centralization at 6. ETFs sit at the other extreme, being the most centralized and risky. Ecash improves over custodial Lightning by providing better privacy and security.

Author: It’s tricky because it depends on who you ask—everyone has a different opinion on the placement of this section. I’ve done my best to find a middle ground that most people would agree with.

I’m also considering removing ETFs altogether and just leaving ‘exchange’ on the other end, since, as far as I know, you can’t directly go from ETF to Bitcoin—you can only cash out in fiat. With an exchange, at least you can go from bitcoin held on an exchange to self-custodial/custodial bitcoin. But, as you mentioned, some might still trust an exchange more than a Cashu mint, even though more exchanges have ‘rugged’ users than Cashu mints. I’m still uncertain.

> ### Ecash vs Custodial Lightning

Author: This is a great suggestion. I moved the info tip up and placed this under it.

`Since ecash is a custodial solution, it’s important to weigh its benefits against the risks of other custodial options. The risk profile of ecash is similar to custodial Lightning, but with some added benefits.`

##### Legend
✅ Strongly mitigates the issue<br>
⚠️ Mitigates the issue somewhat<br>
❌ No impact on the issue

| Feature | Ecash| Custodial Lightning |
|-------|----------|----------|
| Privacy | ✅ | ❌ |
| Secure Against Theft (Rug Pulls) | ⚠️ | ❌ |
| Offline Transfer | ✅ | ❌ |
| Regulatory Risk | ❌ | ❌ |

* **Privacy** - Ecash uses blinding signatures, which makes it difficult to trace transactions back to users. Custodial lightning provides less privacy as the custodian has visibility over transactions and user activities.

> * **Secure Against Theft (Rug Pulls)** - Solo mints run by a single entity are more susceptible to rug pull scenarios. Multiple-guardian federations are more secure against theft, as funds are stored in a multi-sig wallet and require multiple guardians to be malicious or compromised for theft to occur.

Author: Great point. I added a piece about custodial lightning here:

`Custodial lightning and solo mints run by a single entity (such as Cashu mints) are more susceptible to rug pull scenarios. Multiple-guardian federations are more secure against theft, as funds are stored in a multi-sig wallet and require multiple guardians to be malicious or compromised for theft to occur.`

   alt-text = "An illustration of the process of creating and redeeming ecash tokens"
   caption = "Creating and redeeming ecash tokens."
   width = 800
   height = 456
   layout = "full-width"
%}

The process of creating bitcoin backed ecash is known as **minting.** The process of redeeming ecash into sats via the Lightning Network is known as **melting.** This process typically includes the following steps:

#### Minting ecash

**1. User Deposits Funds** - The user deposits bitcoin into a mint. Typically this is done by generating a Lightning invoice through the mint and paying it.

**2. Blinded Token Creation** - Upon successful payment, the mint generates blinded tokens, which are IOUs of the deposited funds. The blinding process ensures that the mint cannot link the tokens to the user, preserving privacy.

**3. Mint provides Tokens to User** - The user receives a set of secrets (a cryptographic value that represents ownership of a specific amount of bitcoin) that correspond to specific amounts of sats. These secrets can be combined to create an ecash token of any amount denominated in bitcoin.

> #### Melting ecash

Reviewer 4: Love translation tables. My attempt-the only neutral terms i can think of are create/pay/send
| Action                | Cashu            | Fedi               |  
| -------------     | -------------| -------------|
| Create Ecash     |  Mint              |  Issue            |
| Pay an Invoice   | Melt              |  Redeem        |
| Send Ecash       | Swap             | Re-issue       |

> #### Melting ecash

Author: ACK. Thanks for bringing this up @elsirion and thanks for the table example @findingsov. I think this it's a great suggestion and definitely needed. I'll include this in my next update.

> #### Melting ecash

Author: Hey @findingsov and @elsirion I’ve been trying to make this section clearer. Here are the updates I’ve made–what do you think of the translate table below and the more neutral terms used in the description above the table?
<img width="857" alt="image" src="https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/f7be1c8c-9695-43a0-94f5-ab6c9c711eb4">

> #### Melting ecash

Reviewer 3: The cashu term for `Reissue` would be `Swap`. This is when one set of proofs is exchanged for another of equal value less fees with the mint. 

Send more refers to createing a token from a set of proofs without having to go to the mint first if the wallet has the correct amount in its db already.

> #### Melting ecash

Reviewer 3: i would clarify point 2 the process for creating is the wallet generates secrets and blinds them, then sends the blinded message (not the secret) to the mint who returns a blind signature on the blinded message. The mint does not generate the secrets and only learns the secret when they are spent.

> #### Melting ecash

Author: Thanks! I tried to summarize this in this explanation. How does this sound:

2. **Token Creation:** Upon successful payment, the wallet generates secrets and blinds them. The wallet then sends the blinded messages to the mint or federation, which returns a blind signature on the blinded messages. The blinding process ensures that the mint cannot link the tokens to the user, preserving privacy.

> #### Melting ecash

Reviewer 3: Good, i would add that it ensure the ecash creation cannot be linked to the ecash redemption.

**4. User Initiates Melting** - The user requests to redeem their ecash tokens for bitcoin, usually this is done through the Lightning Network.

**5. Token destruction** - The mint verifies and destroys the ecash tokens, ensuring they cannot be reused. This step confirms the validity of the tokens and prevents double spending.

**6. Sats Transfer via Lightning Network** - The user receives an equivalent amount of bitcoin, completing the melting process and converting ecash back into bitcoin.

### Sending and receiving ecash
{% include picture.html
   image = "/assets/images/guide/how-it-works/ecash/sending-and-receiving@1x.png"
   retina = "/assets/images/guide/how-it-works/ecash/sending-and-receiving@2x.png"
   mobile = "/assets/images/guide/how-it-works/ecash/sending-and-receiving@2x.png"
   mobileRetina = "assets/images/guide/how-it-works/ecash/sending-and-receiving@2x.png"
   alt-text = "An illustration of the process of sending and receiving ecash tokens to various users"

>    caption = "Sending and receiving ecash tokens."

Reviewer 4: In the Nuts, Bob is the mint.  Alice is the ecash sender.  Carol is who she sends the ecash to.  Should the pics here be consistent with Nuts?

Examples of Nuts with Bobmint, Alice, Carol: https://github.com/cashubtc/nuts/blob/2276462075573e26f223e8c8d575bc68d9188b39/01.md and here: https://github.com/cashubtc/nuts/blob/2276462075573e26f223e8c8d575bc68d9188b39/03.md

Author: Nice. I've update the illustration to show Alice and Carol. I skipped bob and just let it labeled as "ecash mint" though.

   mobile = "/assets/images/guide/how-it-works/ecash/sending-bitcoin-flow@2x.jpg"
   mobileRetina = "assets/images/guide/how-it-works/ecash/sending-bitcoin-flow@2x.jpg"
   alt-text = "An illustration comparing how on-chain bitcoin, lightning, and ecash handle the sending of bitcoin."
   caption = ""
   width = 800
   height = 456
   layout = "full-width"
%}

Sending ecash and receiving can be done via multiple methods to suit different transaction needs. One of the advantages of bitcoin backed ecash is that the tokens are just strings of text, which are very flexible and can be transmitted via any medium or rail. Some unique ways that ecash can be sent and received, which are not possible with on-chain or Lightning transactions, include:

#### Text message, such as email or SMS:
Users can send ecash by copying and pasting the token string. This is particularly useful for online transactions or when using text based communication platforms.

#### Bluetooth transmission:
Most applications allow users to share a token via Bluetooth. However, more comprehensive Bluetooth sending and receiving functionalities have not yet been fully developed.

#### QR codes:

> Unlike base chain and Lightning Network QR codes, which only provide directions for where to send Bitcoin, ecash tokens can be embedded within a QR code itself. This means that a user can claim the ecash token by simply scanning the QR code. This method is particularly useful for in person transactions or quick transfers. QR redemption also enables physical bearer assets like paper notes.

Author: This would actually be very helpful. I've noticed some differences in the Cashu apps that impact scanning interoperability. For example, a QR code generated in Cashu.me can't be scanned by Minibits because Minibits doesn't support animated QRs. I'm assuming the reason has to do with the size of the QR codes. I've seen eNuts be unable to display some tokens in QR form due to their size. Do you know if Fedi has adopted QR Loop for the same reason?

If this seems to be a common need among ecash wallets due to token size, then maybe we should make a note of this in the design best practices section. I don't think we should go as far as recommending the use of animated QRs, but perhaps just include a note explaining that some wallets are using different QR standards like QR Loop to display ecash tokens due to their string size. We could add something like: "If you encounter issues with displaying ecash in QR forms, consider implementing different QR standards such as QR Loop.

> Unlike base chain and Lightning Network QR codes, which only provide directions for where to send Bitcoin, ecash tokens can be embedded within a QR code itself. This means that a user can claim the ecash token by simply scanning the QR code. This method is particularly useful for in person transactions or quick transfers. QR redemption also enables physical bearer assets like paper notes.

Author: I’ve been thinking about this, and I think it’s an important implementation detail with a big impact on the UX. Here are a few UX implications that come to mind:

- When a wallet uses a non-animated QR format (like eNuts), some tokens can’t be displayed as a QR code because they’re too large.
- Animated QR codes require the user to hold their phone up to the screen for longer, and introduce variables like display size and speed settings.

I’m wondering if this falls outside the scope of the guide? Typically designers are at the mercy of whichever QR standard the developers implement, and the UX of QR codes doesn’t vary much. What do you guys think? Is this something we should include? If we did,I think it would make sense to include in the general ecash design best practices. WDYT? @GBKS @mouxdesign @rabbitholiness @yashrajd?

Bitcoin backed ecash is custodial, meaning someone else holds your bitcoin. Be aware that this subjects users to custodial risks.

{% include tip/close.html %}

The spectrum of decentralization and custody for bitcoin ranges from highly decentralized to highly centralized. Holding self-custodial Bitcoin on the base layer is the least risky and most decentralized, rated at 0. Self-custodial Lightning is slightly more centralized at 1, while custodial Lightning moves further towards centralization at 6. ETFs sit at the other extreme, being the most centralized and risky. Ecash improves over custodial Lightning by providing better privacy and security.

### Ecash vs Custodial Lightning
<div class="nodes -full-width" markdown="1">
   <table>
      <thead>
         <tr>
            <th>&nbsp;</th>
            <th>
               Ecash
            </th>
            <th>
               Custodial Lightning
            </th>
         </tr>
      </thead>
      <tbody>
         <tr>
            <td>Privacy</td>
            <td>✅</td>
            <td>❌</td>
         </tr>
         <tr>
            <td>Secure Against Theft (Rug Pulls)</td>
            <td>❌</td>

>             <td>❌</td>

Author: I thought about this a for a while. I think agree with you in terms of Federated Mints. I updated it to warning triangle and pushed the following copy changes.

_"Solo mints run by a single entity are more susceptible to rug pull scenarios. Multiple-guardian federations are more secure against theft, as funds are stored in a multi-sig wallet and require multiple guardians to be malicious or compromised for theft to occur."_

* **IOUs** - Both systems represent IOUs from the central operator or custodian, meaning they are not direct bitcoin ownership.

* **Offline Settlement** - Ecash can be transferred offline, whereas custodial Lightning transactions typically require an online connection.

* **Regulatory Risk** - Both are subject to regulatory actions that can impact their operations. Mint operators could be affected by changes in laws or enforcement actions.

* **Bearer Asset** - Ecash tokens are bearer assets, meaning the mint cannot freeze the token once issued.

## Advantages of bitcoin backed ecash
{% include picture.html
   image = "/assets/images/guide/how-it-works/ecash/connected@1x.png"
   retina = "/assets/images/guide/how-it-works/ecash/connected@2x.png"
   mobile = "/assets/images/guide/how-it-works/ecash/connected@1x.png"
   mobileRetina = "/assets/images/guide/how-it-works/ecash/connected@2x.png"
   alt-text = "An illustration of cashu, fedimint, and lightning nodes connected in a mesh network."
   caption = "Lightning is the connective tissue between ecash and bitcoin."
   width = 800
   height = 456
   layout = "full-width"
%}

> * **Enhanced Privacy** - Ecash uses blinded signatures, ensuring that transaction details, including user identities and amounts, remain hidden. The mint does not have access to user transaction data or balances.

Reviewer 3: I would maybe clarify the use of amount here. A a mint can tall the amounts involved in a individual transaction i.e. pay an invoice of x amount or swap y proofs for y proofs. What it cannot tell is the total amount of ecash anyone user has as there is no concept of accounts.

Author: I moved this section to the top. This now under the "Key Benefits of Bitcoin-Backed Ecash" section. Updated the copy to:

_"Blinded signatures safeguard user identities and total balances. While the mint can see amounts for individual transactions (like paying an invoice or swapping proofs), it cannot associate these with specific users or determine anyone's total ecash holdings, as there are no user accounts."_

---
layout: guide
title: Ecash

> description: An overview of private key management schemes, including descriptions of available approaches, some advice and best practices.

Author: Good catch! Updated.

nav_order: 7
parent: How it works
has_children: true
permalink: /guide/how-it-works/ecash/introduction/
redirect_from:
 - /guide/ecash/introductions/
 - /guide/ecash/introduction/
main_classes: -no-top-padding
image: https://bitcoin.design/assets/images/guide/how-it-works/ecash/ecash.jpg
---

<!--

Editor's notes

A brief introduction and summary of all pages in this section. The idea is that readers
scan this page to get an overview of the section and then decide which topics to dive into.

Illustration sources

https://www.figma.com/community/file/995256542920917246/BDG---Private-key-management-illustrations

-->

{% include picture.html
   image = "/assets/images/guide/how-it-works/ecash/ecash.jpg"
   retina = "/assets/images/guide/how-it-works/ecash/ecash@2x.jpg"
   mobile = "/assets/images/guide/how-it-works/ecash/ecash-mobile.jpg"
   mobileRetina = "/assets/images/guide/how-it-works/ecash/ecash-mobile@2x.jpg"
   alt-text = "ecash chapter illustration"
   width = 1600
   height = 600
   layout = "full-width"
%}

# Ecash

> Ecash is a digital payment system that uses cryptographic techniques to ensure secure and private transactions. Developed by David Chaum in 1933, it operates through a mint that issues digital tokens in exchange for deposited funds. These tokens can be spent and received without revealing user identities or transaction details, thanks to blinded signatures. Users can redeem their tokens for the original funds at any time. Since no accounts or personal information are needed; the mint cannot see your balance, tokens, or transaction details, offering a highly private and efficient method for digital payments.

Author: Yeah, agreed. I'll remove it from this introduction page.

---

###  [Overview]({{ '/guide/how-it-works/ecash/overview/' | relative_url }})

> Get an introduction to how ecash on Bitcoin enhances transaction privacy, security, and speed.

Author: Nice catch! Updated.

   height = 456
   layout = "full-width"
%}

> When a user sends an ecash token to another user, the wallet verifies the mint’s signature to confirm the token’s authenticity. The mint then checks its database to ensure the token has not been previously spent. If the token is valid, it is destroyed and replaced with a new token, which is then issued to the recipient. This cycle of destroying the old token and issuing a new one prevents double spending while maintaining user privacy and security.

Reviewer 5: Nice, like this replacement! How does this work when internet connectivity is absent?

Author: Ty! 

Without internet connectivity users can still send and receive Cashu tokens via airdrop or text message, scanning QR codes, etc.. but that's just sending and receiving. Technically the claimant needs to be online to **redeem** the ecash token with the mint. However, some wallet display a warning that they are currently offline (no internet connectivity) and informs the user that the token will be claimed once the wallet is back online. The wallet then holds the token in a queue, where it usually appears in the transaction history as ‘pending’ or ‘received offline.’ Once the wallet is back online, it attempts to redeem the ecash.

There are risks with this approach. The most obvious is that while the token hasn’t been redeemed, it could technically be double-spent. If the sender sends that token to someone else or claims it themselves before the claimant, it will become invalid.

Reviewer 3: In cashu a wallet can only verify a mint signature if the proof also includes a [DLEQ proof](https://github.com/cashubtc/nuts/blob/main/12.md). If the token does not include proofs with a valid DLEQ proof and a P2PK locked secret to the receiver there is a risk the sender can double spent before the receiver can swap with the mint, if those two conditions are met there is not a risk of a double spent.

Author: I think I follow: In the case of offline sending the best way to reduce the risk of double spending is to ensure that a token includes both a valid DLEQ proof and is P2PK locked to the recipient. In terms of UX, the wallet automatically handles the inclusion of DLEQ proofs when sending ecash tokens, even without a P2PK lock. However, a token with just a DLEQ proof and no P2PK lock is still at risk of being double spent.

Some ways it could be double spent (according to Claude):

1. Proof of Possession: DLEQ proofs demonstrate that the sender possessed a valid token at the time of creating the proof, but they don't prevent the sender from using the same token elsewhere before the recipient redeems it.
2. Race Condition: Without additional measures (like P2PK locks), there's a potential race condition where the sender could attempt to spend the token with the mint before the recipient does.

I think this might be too technical for inclusion in this guide. The target audience is designers who are familiar with Bitcoin but want to learn about ecash from a design perspective. In this case, I think we might be able to avoid getting into this level of detail. What do you think?
